## Readme
Language: Python 2.7 (mostly)

This repository contains the vast majority of the code used to analyze the results of the screen and generate figures. It contains the following notebooks:

library_annotations:
Annotates the gRNA table with updated information on mutation outcome prediction, coedtiting risk category, and database annotations on target proteins and residues. Please note that as par of the revisions, the mutation outcome prediction algorithm was (hopefully) improved, and so they do not always match thoise of the first preprint that was published. It requires some database files as input: SGDexport2.tsv, which is provided in this repository, and the YAAM database file (http://yaam.ifc.unam.mx/index.php) which is too large to provide on github. Its important output is screen_guides_wscoreannot_revisedv2.tsv, which is used by multiple other notebooks. It also generates the raw data which is requires to generate Figure 6B, and generates Supplementary figure 2.

mutation_effect_predictors:
This notebook cross references the mutation outcomes with data from Envision and Mutfunc to investigate if GNEs are enriched in deleterious mutations. The Uniprot proteome annotation file for s288c (uniprot_s288c_proteome_07_08_2018.tab) is used to harmonize protein and gene IDs across databases. These two databases are too large to be uploaded on github, and so must be downloaded before the notebook can be run. The Envision database can be found here: https://envision.gs.washington.edu/shiny/envision_new/ and the mutfunc database can be found here: http://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/mutfunc/. For mutfunc, each of the subfiles should be in a mutfunc subdirectory (empty on github). Be aware that running this notebook can take a while because of the time needed to parse the databases. This notebook is also where the statitical tests for enrichment/depletion of PTMs for GNEs is performed. This notebook generates Figure 4, supplementary Figures 12 and 13, as well as Supplementary Table 1 and Supplementary Dataset 1. Supplementary Dataset 1 is the most complete annotation file for the gRNA library in the large scale experiment.

timepoint_correlations:
Computes correlation coefficients for reads counts between time points (Supplementary Figure 8), clusters them by correlation coefficient (Supplementary Figure 9), and measures the correlatation between GC content and read count for all time points (Supplementary Figure 16). It requires as input the z score table generated by the Hi-Seq data analysis notebooks and a reannotated version of the gRNA library table, but can also be run using Supplementary Dataset 1 instead with minor changes to the code. Alson generates some misc elements for Figure 3 (panels B, C and some elements of panel D).

uniprot_sites:
Small notebook where GNEs are tested for enrichment in annotated residues in Uniprot. This is the only notebook in this directory that is python 3.
